doc/guides/prog_guide/eventdev/event_crypto_adapter.rst, before:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

Event Crypto Adapter Library
============================

The DPDK :doc:`Eventdev library <eventdev>` provides event driven
programming model with features to schedule events.
The :doc:`../cryptodev_lib` provides an interface to
the crypto poll mode drivers which supports different crypto operations.
The Event Crypto Adapter is one of the adapter which is intended to
bridge between the event device and the crypto device.

The packet flow from crypto device to the event device can be accomplished
using SW and HW based transfer mechanism.
The Adapter queries an eventdev PMD to determine which mechanism to be used.
The adapter uses an EAL service core function for SW based packet transfer
and uses the eventdev PMD functions to configure HW based packet transfer
between the crypto device and the event device. The crypto adapter uses a new
event type called ``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_CRYPTODEV`` to indicate the event source.

The application can choose to submit a crypto operation directly to
crypto device or send it to the crypto adapter via eventdev based on
RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD capability.
The first mode is known as the event new(RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW)
mode and the second as the event forward(RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD)
mode. The choice of mode can be specified while creating the adapter.
In the former mode, it is an application responsibility to enable ingress
packet ordering. In the latter mode, it is the adapter responsibility to
enable the ingress packet ordering.


Adapter Mode
------------

RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW mode, application submits crypto
operations directly to crypto device. The adapter then dequeues crypto
completions from crypto device and enqueues them as events to the event device.
This mode does not ensure ingress ordering, if the application directly
enqueues to the cryptodev without going through crypto/atomic stage.
In this mode, events dequeued from the adapter will be treated as new events.
The application needs to specify event information (response information)
which is needed to enqueue an event after the crypto operation is completed.

.. _figure_event_crypto_adapter_op_new:

.. figure:: ../img/event_crypto_adapter_op_new.*

   Working model of ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW`` mode


RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode, if the event PMD and crypto
PMD supports internal event port
(``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD``), the application should
use ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_enqueue()`` API to enqueue crypto operations as
events to crypto adapter. If not, application retrieves crypto adapter's event
port using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_event_port_get()`` API, links its event
queue to this port and starts enqueuing crypto operations as events to eventdev
using ``rte_event_enqueue_burst()``. The adapter then dequeues the events and
submits the crypto operations to the cryptodev. After the crypto operation is
complete, the adapter enqueues events to the event device. The application can
use this mode when ingress packet ordering is needed. In this mode, events
dequeued from the adapter will be treated as forwarded events. The application
needs to specify the cryptodev ID and queue pair ID (request information) needed
to enqueue a crypto operation in addition to the event information (response
information) needed to enqueue an event after the crypto operation has
completed.

.. _figure_event_crypto_adapter_op_forward:

.. figure:: ../img/event_crypto_adapter_op_forward.*

   Working model of ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode


API Overview
------------

This section has a brief introduction to the event crypto adapter APIs.
The application is expected to create an adapter which is associated with
a single eventdev, then add cryptodev and queue pair to the adapter instance.

Create an adapter instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An adapter instance is created using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create()``. This
function is called with event device to be associated with the adapter and port
configuration for the adapter to setup an event port(if the adapter needs to use
a service function).

Adapter can be started in ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW`` or
``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode.

.. code-block:: c

        int err;
        uint8_t dev_id, id;
        struct rte_event_dev_info dev_info;
        struct rte_event_port_conf conf;
        enum rte_event_crypto_adapter_mode mode;

        err = rte_event_dev_info_get(id, &dev_info);

        conf.new_event_threshold = dev_info.max_num_events;
        conf.dequeue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_dequeue_depth;
        conf.enqueue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_enqueue_depth;
	mode = RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD;
        err = rte_event_crypto_adapter_create(id, dev_id, &conf, mode);

If the application desires to have finer control of eventdev port allocation
and setup, it can use the ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create_ext()`` function.
The ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create_ext()`` function is passed as a callback
function. The callback function is invoked if the adapter needs to use a
service function and needs to create an event port for it. The callback is
expected to fill the ``struct rte_event_crypto_adapter_conf`` structure
passed to it.

In the ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode, if the event PMD and crypto
PMD supports internal event port
(``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD``), events with crypto
operations should be enqueued to the crypto adapter using
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_enqueue()`` API. If not, the event port created by
the adapter can be retrieved using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_event_port_get()``
API. An application can use this event port to link with an event queue, on
which it enqueues events towards the crypto adapter using
``rte_event_enqueue_burst()``.

.. code-block:: c

        uint8_t id, evdev_id, cdev_id, crypto_ev_port_id, app_qid;
        struct rte_event ev;
        uint32_t cap;
        int ret;

        // Fill in event info and update event_ptr with rte_crypto_op
        memset(&ev, 0, sizeof(ev));
        .
        .
        ev.event_ptr = op;

        ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get(evdev_id, cdev_id, &cap);
        if (cap & RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD) {
                ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_enqueue(evdev_id, app_ev_port_id,
                                                       ev, nb_events);
        } else {
                ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_event_port_get(id,
                                                        &crypto_ev_port_id);
                ret = rte_event_queue_setup(evdev_id, app_qid, NULL);
                ret = rte_event_port_link(evdev_id, crypto_ev_port_id, &app_qid,
                                          NULL, 1);
                ev.queue_id = app_qid;
                ret = rte_event_enqueue_burst(evdev_id, app_ev_port_id, ev,
                                              nb_events);
        }

Event device configuration for service based adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create()`` is used for creating
adapter instance, ``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` is
automatically incremented, and event device is reconfigured
with additional event port during service initialization.
This event device reconfigure logic also increments the
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameter if the adapter event port config is of type
``RTE_EVENT_PORT_CFG_SINGLE_LINK``.

Application no longer needs to configure the
event device with ``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` and
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameters required for crypto adapter when the adapter is created
using the above-mentioned API.

Querying adapter capabilities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get()`` function allows
the application to query the adapter capabilities for an eventdev and cryptodev
combination. This API provides whether cryptodev and eventdev are connected using
internal HW port or not.

.. code-block:: c

        rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get(dev_id, cdev_id, &cap);

Adding queue pair to the adapter instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cryptodev device id and queue pair are created using cryptodev APIs.
For more information see :doc:`here <../cryptodev_lib>`.

.. code-block:: c

        struct rte_cryptodev_config conf;
        struct rte_cryptodev_qp_conf qp_conf;
        uint8_t cdev_id = 0;
        uint16_t qp_id = 0;

        rte_cryptodev_configure(cdev_id, &conf);
        rte_cryptodev_queue_pair_setup(cdev_id, qp_id, &qp_conf);

These cryptodev id and queue pair are added to the instance using the
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_add()`` API.
The same is removed using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_del()`` API.
If HW supports RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_QP_EV_BIND
capability, event information must be passed to the add API.

.. code-block:: c

        uint32_t cap;
        int ret;

        ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get(id, evdev, &cap);
        if (cap & RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_QP_EV_BIND) {
                struct rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_conf conf;

                // Fill in conf.event information & pass it to add API
                rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_add(id, cdev_id, qp_id, &conf);
        } else
                rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_add(id, cdev_id, qp_id, NULL);

Configure the service function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the adapter uses a service function, the application is required to assign
a service core to the service function as show below.

.. code-block:: c

        uint32_t service_id;

        if (rte_event_crypto_adapter_service_id_get(id, &service_id) == 0)
                rte_service_map_lcore_set(service_id, CORE_ID);

Set event request/response information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD mode, the application needs
to specify the cryptodev ID and queue pair ID (request information) in
addition to the event information (response information) needed to enqueue
an event after the crypto operation has completed. The request and response
information are specified in the ``struct rte_crypto_op`` private data or
session's private data.

In the RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW mode, the application is required
to provide only the response information.

The SW adapter or HW PMD uses ``rte_crypto_op::sess_type`` to
decide whether request/response data is located in the crypto session/
crypto security session or at an offset in the ``struct rte_crypto_op``.
The ``rte_crypto_op::private_data_offset`` is used to locate the request/
response in the ``rte_crypto_op``.

For crypto session, ``rte_cryptodev_sym_session_set_user_data()`` API
will be used to set request/response data. The same data will be obtained
by ``rte_cryptodev_sym_session_get_user_data()`` API.  The
RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_SESSION_PRIVATE_DATA capability indicates
whether HW or SW supports this feature.

For security session, ``rte_security_session_set_private_data()`` API
will be used to set request/response data. The same data will be obtained
by ``rte_security_session_get_private_data()`` API.

For session-less it is mandatory to place the request/response data with
the ``rte_crypto_op``.

.. code-block:: c

        union rte_event_crypto_metadata m_data;
        struct rte_event ev;
        struct rte_crypto_op *op;

        /* Allocate & fill op structure */
        op = rte_crypto_op_alloc();

        memset(&m_data, 0, sizeof(m_data));
        memset(&ev, 0, sizeof(ev));
        /* Fill event information and update event_ptr to rte_crypto_op */
        ev.event_ptr = op;

        if (op->sess_type == RTE_CRYPTO_OP_WITH_SESSION) {
                /* Copy response information */
                rte_memcpy(&m_data.response_info, &ev, sizeof(ev));
                /* Copy request information */
                m_data.request_info.cdev_id = cdev_id;
                m_data.request_info.queue_pair_id = qp_id;
                /* Call set API to store private data information */
                rte_cryptodev_sym_session_set_user_data(
                        op->sym->session,
                        &m_data,
                        sizeof(m_data));
        } if (op->sess_type == RTE_CRYPTO_OP_SESSIONLESS) {
                uint32_t len = IV_OFFSET + MAXIMUM_IV_LENGTH +
                               (sizeof(struct rte_crypto_sym_xform) * 2);
                op->private_data_offset = len;
                /* Copy response information */
                rte_memcpy(&m_data.response_info, &ev, sizeof(ev));
                /* Copy request information */
                m_data.request_info.cdev_id = cdev_id;
                m_data.request_info.queue_pair_id = qp_id;
                /* Store private data information along with rte_crypto_op */
                rte_memcpy(op + len, &m_data, sizeof(m_data));
        }

Enable event vectorization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The event crypto adapter can aggregate outcoming crypto operations based on
provided response information of ``rte_event_crypto_metadata::response_info``
and generate a ``rte_event`` containing ``rte_event_vector`` whose event type
is ``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_CRYPTODEV_VECTOR``.
To enable vectorization application should set
RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_EVENT_VECTOR in
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_conf::flag`` and provide vector
configuration(size, mempool, etc.) with respect of
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_vector_limits``, which could be obtained by calling
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_vector_limits_get()``.

The RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_EVENT_VECTOR capability indicates whether
PMD supports this feature.

Start the adapter instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The application calls ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_start()`` to start the adapter.
This function calls the start callbacks of the eventdev PMDs for hardware based
eventdev-cryptodev connections and ``rte_service_run_state_set()`` to enable the
service function if one exists.

.. code-block:: c

        rte_event_crypto_adapter_start(id, mode);

.. Note::

         The eventdev to which the event_crypto_adapter is connected needs to
         be started before calling rte_event_crypto_adapter_start().

Get adapter statistics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The  ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_stats_get()`` function reports counters defined
in struct ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_stats``. The received packet and
enqueued event counts are a sum of the counts from the eventdev PMD callbacks
if the callback is supported, and the counts maintained by the service function,
if one exists.

Set/Get adapter runtime configuration parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The runtime configuration parameters of adapter can be set/get using
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_runtime_params_set()`` and
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_runtime_params_get()`` respectively.
The parameters that can be set/get are defined in
``struct rte_event_crypto_adapter_runtime_params``.

Commit message:

doc: correct grammar and style in eventdev guide
Use AI review to find and address various documentation issues
in the eventdev programmer's guide:

Grammar
- Fix subject-verb agreement in multiple places
- Fix article usage ("a" vs "an" before consonant/vowel sounds)
- Fix relative pronoun usage ("which" vs "that")
- Replace nonstandard verb "invocated" with "invoked"

Spelling
- Fix "setup up" to "set up"
- Fix "as show below" to "as shown below" (multiple files)
- Fix "rte mbuf" to "rte_mbuf"
- Fix "rte_mbufs" to "rte_mbuf"
- Fix missing backtick in RST markup

Style
- Capitalize "api" to "API"
- Replace informal "For e.g," with "For example,"
- Remove extra whitespace
- Fix "benefit of" to "benefit from"
- Clarify awkward phrasing

Code example
- Fix invalid switch syntax "case default:" to "default:"

Path corrections
- Update outdated library path from libs/librte_eventdev to lib/eventdev

Signed-off-by: Stephen Hemminger <stephen@networkplumber.org>

doc/guides/prog_guide/eventdev/event_crypto_adapter.rst, after:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2018 Intel Corporation. All rights reserved.

Event Crypto Adapter Library
============================

The DPDK :doc:`Eventdev library <eventdev>` provides event driven
programming model with features to schedule events.
The :doc:`../cryptodev_lib` provides an interface to
the crypto poll mode drivers that support different crypto operations.
The Event Crypto Adapter is one of the adapters that is intended to
bridge between the event device and the crypto device.

The packet flow from crypto device to the event device can be accomplished
using SW and HW based transfer mechanism.
The Adapter queries an eventdev PMD to determine which mechanism to be used.
The adapter uses an EAL service core function for SW based packet transfer
and uses the eventdev PMD functions to configure HW based packet transfer
between the crypto device and the event device. The crypto adapter uses a new
event type called ``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_CRYPTODEV`` to indicate the event source.

The application can choose to submit a crypto operation directly to
crypto device or send it to the crypto adapter via eventdev based on
RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD capability.
The first mode is known as the event new(RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW)
mode and the second as the event forward(RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD)
mode. The choice of mode can be specified while creating the adapter.
In the former mode, it is an application responsibility to enable ingress
packet ordering. In the latter mode, it is the adapter responsibility to
enable the ingress packet ordering.


Adapter Mode
------------

RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW mode, application submits crypto
operations directly to crypto device. The adapter then dequeues crypto
completions from crypto device and enqueues them as events to the event device.
This mode does not ensure ingress ordering, if the application directly
enqueues to the cryptodev without going through crypto/atomic stage.
In this mode, events dequeued from the adapter will be treated as new events.
The application needs to specify event information (response information)
which is needed to enqueue an event after the crypto operation is completed.

.. _figure_event_crypto_adapter_op_new:

.. figure:: ../img/event_crypto_adapter_op_new.*

   Working model of ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW`` mode


RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD mode
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode, if the event PMD and crypto
PMD supports internal event port
(``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD``), the application should
use ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_enqueue()`` API to enqueue crypto operations as
events to crypto adapter. If not, application retrieves crypto adapter's event
port using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_event_port_get()`` API, links its event
queue to this port and starts enqueuing crypto operations as events to eventdev
using ``rte_event_enqueue_burst()``. The adapter then dequeues the events and
submits the crypto operations to the cryptodev. After the crypto operation is
complete, the adapter enqueues events to the event device. The application can
use this mode when ingress packet ordering is needed. In this mode, events
dequeued from the adapter will be treated as forwarded events. The application
needs to specify the cryptodev ID and queue pair ID (request information) needed
to enqueue a crypto operation in addition to the event information (response
information) needed to enqueue an event after the crypto operation has
completed.

.. _figure_event_crypto_adapter_op_forward:

.. figure:: ../img/event_crypto_adapter_op_forward.*

   Working model of ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode


API Overview
------------

This section has a brief introduction to the event crypto adapter APIs.
The application is expected to create an adapter which is associated with
a single eventdev, then add cryptodev and queue pair to the adapter instance.

Create an adapter instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An adapter instance is created using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create()``. This
function is called with event device to be associated with the adapter and port
configuration for the adapter to setup an event port(if the adapter needs to use
a service function).

Adapter can be started in ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW`` or
``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode.

.. code-block:: c

        int err;
        uint8_t dev_id, id;
        struct rte_event_dev_info dev_info;
        struct rte_event_port_conf conf;
        enum rte_event_crypto_adapter_mode mode;

        err = rte_event_dev_info_get(id, &dev_info);

        conf.new_event_threshold = dev_info.max_num_events;
        conf.dequeue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_dequeue_depth;
        conf.enqueue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_enqueue_depth;
	mode = RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD;
        err = rte_event_crypto_adapter_create(id, dev_id, &conf, mode);

If the application desires to have finer control of eventdev port allocation
and setup, it can use the ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create_ext()`` function.
The ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create_ext()`` function is passed a callback
function. The callback function is invoked if the adapter needs to use a
service function and needs to create an event port for it. The callback is
expected to fill the ``struct rte_event_crypto_adapter_conf`` structure
passed to it.

In the ``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD`` mode, if the event PMD and crypto
PMD supports internal event port
(``RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD``), events with crypto
operations should be enqueued to the crypto adapter using
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_enqueue()`` API. If not, the event port created by
the adapter can be retrieved using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_event_port_get()``
API. An application can use this event port to link with an event queue, on
which it enqueues events towards the crypto adapter using
``rte_event_enqueue_burst()``.

.. code-block:: c

        uint8_t id, evdev_id, cdev_id, crypto_ev_port_id, app_qid;
        struct rte_event ev;
        uint32_t cap;
        int ret;

        // Fill in event info and update event_ptr with rte_crypto_op
        memset(&ev, 0, sizeof(ev));
        .
        .
        ev.event_ptr = op;

        ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get(evdev_id, cdev_id, &cap);
        if (cap & RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_OP_FWD) {
                ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_enqueue(evdev_id, app_ev_port_id,
                                                       ev, nb_events);
        } else {
                ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_event_port_get(id,
                                                        &crypto_ev_port_id);
                ret = rte_event_queue_setup(evdev_id, app_qid, NULL);
                ret = rte_event_port_link(evdev_id, crypto_ev_port_id, &app_qid,
                                          NULL, 1);
                ev.queue_id = app_qid;
                ret = rte_event_enqueue_burst(evdev_id, app_ev_port_id, ev,
                                              nb_events);
        }

Event device configuration for service based adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_create()`` is used for creating
adapter instance, ``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` is
automatically incremented, and event device is reconfigured
with additional event port during service initialization.
This event device reconfigure logic also increments the
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameter if the adapter event port config is of type
``RTE_EVENT_PORT_CFG_SINGLE_LINK``.

Application no longer needs to configure the
event device with ``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` and
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameters required for crypto adapter when the adapter is created
using the above-mentioned API.

Querying adapter capabilities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get()`` function allows
the application to query the adapter capabilities for an eventdev and cryptodev
combination. This API provides whether cryptodev and eventdev are connected using
internal HW port or not.

.. code-block:: c

        rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get(dev_id, cdev_id, &cap);

Adding queue pair to the adapter instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Cryptodev device id and queue pair are created using cryptodev APIs.
For more information see :doc:`here <../cryptodev_lib>`.

.. code-block:: c

        struct rte_cryptodev_config conf;
        struct rte_cryptodev_qp_conf qp_conf;
        uint8_t cdev_id = 0;
        uint16_t qp_id = 0;

        rte_cryptodev_configure(cdev_id, &conf);
        rte_cryptodev_queue_pair_setup(cdev_id, qp_id, &qp_conf);

These cryptodev id and queue pair are added to the instance using the
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_add()`` API.
The same is removed using ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_del()`` API.
If HW supports RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_QP_EV_BIND
capability, event information must be passed to the add API.

.. code-block:: c

        uint32_t cap;
        int ret;

        ret = rte_event_crypto_adapter_caps_get(id, evdev, &cap);
        if (cap & RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT_QP_EV_BIND) {
                struct rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_conf conf;

                // Fill in conf.event information & pass it to add API
                rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_add(id, cdev_id, qp_id, &conf);
        } else
                rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_pair_add(id, cdev_id, qp_id, NULL);

Configure the service function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the adapter uses a service function, the application is required to assign
a service core to the service function as shown below.

.. code-block:: c

        uint32_t service_id;

        if (rte_event_crypto_adapter_service_id_get(id, &service_id) == 0)
                rte_service_map_lcore_set(service_id, CORE_ID);

Set event request/response information
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

In the RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_FORWARD mode, the application needs
to specify the cryptodev ID and queue pair ID (request information) in
addition to the event information (response information) needed to enqueue
an event after the crypto operation has completed. The request and response
information are specified in the ``struct rte_crypto_op`` private data or
session's private data.

In the RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_OP_NEW mode, the application is required
to provide only the response information.

The SW adapter or HW PMD uses ``rte_crypto_op::sess_type`` to
decide whether request/response data is located in the crypto session/
crypto security session or at an offset in the ``struct rte_crypto_op``.
The ``rte_crypto_op::private_data_offset`` is used to locate the request/
response in the ``rte_crypto_op``.

For crypto session, ``rte_cryptodev_sym_session_set_user_data()`` API
will be used to set request/response data. The same data will be obtained
by ``rte_cryptodev_sym_session_get_user_data()`` API.  The
RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_SESSION_PRIVATE_DATA capability indicates
whether HW or SW supports this feature.

For security session, ``rte_security_session_set_private_data()`` API
will be used to set request/response data. The same data will be obtained
by ``rte_security_session_get_private_data()`` API.

For session-less it is mandatory to place the request/response data with
the ``rte_crypto_op``.

.. code-block:: c

        union rte_event_crypto_metadata m_data;
        struct rte_event ev;
        struct rte_crypto_op *op;

        /* Allocate & fill op structure */
        op = rte_crypto_op_alloc();

        memset(&m_data, 0, sizeof(m_data));
        memset(&ev, 0, sizeof(ev));
        /* Fill event information and update event_ptr to rte_crypto_op */
        ev.event_ptr = op;

        if (op->sess_type == RTE_CRYPTO_OP_WITH_SESSION) {
                /* Copy response information */
                rte_memcpy(&m_data.response_info, &ev, sizeof(ev));
                /* Copy request information */
                m_data.request_info.cdev_id = cdev_id;
                m_data.request_info.queue_pair_id = qp_id;
                /* Call set API to store private data information */
                rte_cryptodev_sym_session_set_user_data(
                        op->sym->session,
                        &m_data,
                        sizeof(m_data));
        } if (op->sess_type == RTE_CRYPTO_OP_SESSIONLESS) {
                uint32_t len = IV_OFFSET + MAXIMUM_IV_LENGTH +
                               (sizeof(struct rte_crypto_sym_xform) * 2);
                op->private_data_offset = len;
                /* Copy response information */
                rte_memcpy(&m_data.response_info, &ev, sizeof(ev));
                /* Copy request information */
                m_data.request_info.cdev_id = cdev_id;
                m_data.request_info.queue_pair_id = qp_id;
                /* Store private data information along with rte_crypto_op */
                rte_memcpy(op + len, &m_data, sizeof(m_data));
        }

Enable event vectorization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The event crypto adapter can aggregate outcoming crypto operations based on
provided response information of ``rte_event_crypto_metadata::response_info``
and generate a ``rte_event`` containing ``rte_event_vector`` whose event type
is ``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_CRYPTODEV_VECTOR``.
To enable vectorization application should set
RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_EVENT_VECTOR in
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_queue_conf::flag`` and provide vector
configuration(size, mempool, etc.) with respect of
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_vector_limits``, which could be obtained by calling
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_vector_limits_get()``.

The RTE_EVENT_CRYPTO_ADAPTER_CAP_EVENT_VECTOR capability indicates whether
PMD supports this feature.

Start the adapter instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The application calls ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_start()`` to start the adapter.
This function calls the start callbacks of the eventdev PMDs for hardware based
eventdev-cryptodev connections and ``rte_service_run_state_set()`` to enable the
service function if one exists.

.. code-block:: c

        rte_event_crypto_adapter_start(id, mode);

.. Note::

         The eventdev to which the event_crypto_adapter is connected needs to
         be started before calling rte_event_crypto_adapter_start().

Get adapter statistics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The  ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_stats_get()`` function reports counters defined
in struct ``rte_event_crypto_adapter_stats``. The received packet and
enqueued event counts are a sum of the counts from the eventdev PMD callbacks
if the callback is supported, and the counts maintained by the service function,
if one exists.

Set/Get adapter runtime configuration parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The runtime configuration parameters of adapter can be set/get using
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_runtime_params_set()`` and
``rte_event_crypto_adapter_runtime_params_get()`` respectively.
The parameters that can be set/get are defined in
``struct rte_event_crypto_adapter_runtime_params``.
