doc/guides/prog_guide/eventdev/event_ethernet_rx_adapter.rst, before:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2017 Intel Corporation.

Event Ethernet Rx Adapter Library
=================================

The DPDK Eventdev API allows the application to use an event driven programming
model for packet processing. In this model, the application polls an event
device port for receiving events that reference packets instead of polling Rx
queues of ethdev ports. Packet transfer between ethdev and the event device can
be supported in hardware or require a software thread to receive packets from
the ethdev port using ethdev poll mode APIs and enqueue these as events to the
event device using the eventdev API. Both transfer mechanisms may be present on
the same platform depending on the particular combination of the ethdev and
the event device.

The Event Ethernet Rx Adapter library is intended for the application code to
configure both transfer mechanisms using a common API. A capability API allows
the eventdev PMD to advertise features supported for a given ethdev and allows
the application to perform configuration as per supported features.

API Walk-through
----------------

This section will introduce the reader to the adapter API. The
application has to first instantiate an adapter which is associated with
a single eventdev, next the adapter instance is configured with Rx queues
that are either polled by a SW thread or linked using hardware support. Finally
the adapter is started.

For SW based packet transfers from ethdev to eventdev, the adapter uses a
DPDK service function and the application is also required to assign a core to
the service function.

Creating an Adapter Instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An adapter instance is created using ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create()``. This
function is passed the event device to be associated with the adapter and port
configuration for the adapter to setup an event port if the adapter needs to use
a service function.

.. code-block:: c

        int err;
        uint8_t dev_id;
        struct rte_event_dev_info dev_info;
        struct rte_event_port_conf rx_p_conf;

        err = rte_event_dev_info_get(id, &dev_info);

        rx_p_conf.new_event_threshold = dev_info.max_num_events;
        rx_p_conf.dequeue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_dequeue_depth;
        rx_p_conf.enqueue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_enqueue_depth;
        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create(id, dev_id, &rx_p_conf);

If the application desires to have finer control of eventdev port allocation
and setup, it can use the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_ext()`` function.
The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_ext()`` function is passed a callback
function. The callback function is invoked if the adapter needs to use a
service function and needs to create an event port for it. The callback is
expected to fill the ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_conf structure``
passed to it.

If the application desires to control the event buffer size at adapter level,
it can use the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_with_params()`` api. The event
buffer size is specified using ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_params::
event_buf_size``. To configure the event buffer size at queue level, the boolean
flag ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_params::use_queue_event_buf`` need to be
set to true. The function is passed the event device to be associated with
the adapter and port configuration for the adapter to setup an event port
if the adapter needs to use a service function.

If the application desires to control both the event port allocation and event
buffer size, ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_ext_with_params()`` can be used.

Event device configuration for service based adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create()`` or
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_with_params()`` is used for creating
adapter instance, ``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` is
automatically incremented and the event device is reconfigured
with the additional event port during service initialization.
This event device reconfigure logic also increments the
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameter if the adapter event port config is of type
``RTE_EVENT_PORT_CFG_SINGLE_LINK``.

Application no longer needs to account for the
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` and
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameters required for eth Rx adapter in the event device configuration,
when the adapter is created using the above-mentioned APIs.

Adding Rx Queues to the Adapter Instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ethdev Rx queues can be added to the instance using
either the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()`` function
or ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add()``.
The former is used to add a single Rx queue at a time,
while the latter allows adding multiple Rx queues in a single call.

Single Queue Addition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()`` API
allows adding a single Rx queue to the adapter instance.
Configuration for the Rx queue
is passed using a ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf`` parameter.
Event information for packets from this Rx queue
is encoded in the ``ev`` field of this struct.
The ``servicing_weight`` member of the struct
determines the relative polling frequency of the Rx queue
and is applicable when the adapter uses a service core function.
Applications can also configure the queue event buffer size
using the ``event_buf_size`` parameter in ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf``.

.. code-block:: c

        ev.queue_id = 0;
        ev.sched_type = RTE_SCHED_TYPE_ATOMIC;
        ev.priority = 0;

        queue_config.rx_queue_flags = 0;
        queue_config.ev = ev;
        queue_config.servicing_weight = 1;
        queue_config.event_buf_size = 1024;

        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add(id,
                                                eth_dev_id,
                                                0, &queue_config);

Bulk Queue Addition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add()`` API
allows the addition of multiple Rx queues in a single call.
While ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()``
supports adding multiple queues by specifying ``rx_queue_id = -1``,
it does not allow applying specific configurations to each queue individually.
The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add()`` API
accepts an array of receive queue IDs along with their corresponding configurations,
enabling control over each Rx queue's settings.

.. code-block:: c

        struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf queue_config[nb_rx_queues];
        int rx_queue_id[nb_rx_queues];

        for (int i = 0; i < nb_rx_queues; i++) {
            rx_queue_id[i] = i;
            queue_config[i].rx_queue_flags = 0;
            queue_config[i].ev.queue_id = i;
            queue_config[i].ev.sched_type = RTE_SCHED_TYPE_ATOMIC;
            queue_config[i].ev.priority = 0;
            queue_config[i].servicing_weight = 1;
            queue_config[i].event_buf_size = 1024;
        }

        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add(id,
                                                 eth_dev_id,
                                                 rx_queue_id,
                                                 queue_config,
                                                 nb_rx_queues);

Querying Adapter Capabilities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_caps_get()`` function allows
the application to query the adapter capabilities for an eventdev and ethdev
combination. For e.g, if the ``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_OVERRIDE_FLOW_ID``
is set, the application can override the adapter generated flow ID in the event
using ``rx_queue_flags`` field in ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf``
which is passed as a parameter to the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()``
function.

.. code-block:: c

        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_caps_get(dev_id, eth_dev_id, &cap);

        queue_config.rx_queue_flags = 0;
        if (cap & RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_OVERRIDE_FLOW_ID) {
                ev.flow_id = 1;
                queue_config.rx_queue_flags =
                        RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_QUEUE_FLOW_ID_VALID;
        }

Configuring the Service Function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the adapter uses a service function, the application is required to assign
a service core to the service function as show below.

.. code-block:: c

        uint32_t service_id;

        if (rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_service_id_get(0, &service_id) == 0)
                rte_service_map_lcore_set(service_id, RX_CORE_ID);

Starting the Adapter Instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The application calls ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_start()`` to start the adapter.
This function calls the start callbacks of the eventdev PMDs for hardware based
eventdev-ethdev connections and ``rte_service_run_state_set()`` to enable the
service function if one exists.

.. Note::

         The eventdev to which the event_eth_rx_adapter is connected needs to
         be started before calling rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_start().

Getting Adapter Statistics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The  ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_stats_get()`` function reports counters defined
in struct ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_stats``. The received packet and
enqueued event counts are a sum of the counts from the eventdev PMD callbacks
if the callback is supported, and the counts maintained by the service function,
if one exists. The service function also maintains a count of cycles for which
it was not able to enqueue to the event device.

Getting Adapter queue config
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The  ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf_get()`` function reports
flags for handling received packets, event queue identifier, scheduler type,
event priority, polling frequency of the receive queue and flow identifier
in struct ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf``.

Set/Get adapter runtime configuration parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The runtime configuration parameters of adapter can be set/get using
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_runtime_params_set()`` and
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_runtime_params_get()`` respectively.
The parameters that can be set/get are defined in
``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_runtime_params``.

Getting and resetting Adapter queue stats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_stats_get()`` function reports
adapter queue counters defined in struct ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_stats``.
This function reports queue level stats only when queue level event buffer is
used otherwise it returns -EINVAL.

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_stats_reset`` function can be used to
reset queue level stats when queue level event buffer is in use.

Getting Adapter Instance ID
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_instance_get()`` function reports
Rx adapter instance ID for a specified ethernet device ID and Rx queue index.

Interrupt Based Rx Queues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The service core function is typically set up to poll ethernet Rx queues for
packets. Certain queues may have low packet rates and it would be more
efficient to enable the Rx queue interrupt and read packets after receiving
the interrupt.

The servicing_weight member of struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf
is applicable when the adapter uses a service core function. The application
has to enable Rx queue interrupts when configuring the ethernet device
using the ``rte_eth_dev_configure()`` function and then use a servicing_weight
of zero when adding the Rx queue to the adapter.

The adapter creates a thread blocked on the interrupt, on an interrupt this
thread enqueues the port id and the queue id to a ring buffer. The adapter
service function dequeues the port id and queue id from the ring buffer,
invokes the ``rte_eth_rx_burst()`` to receive packets on the queue and
converts the received packets to events in the same manner as packets
received on a polled Rx queue. The interrupt thread is affinitized to the same
CPUs as the lcores of the Rx adapter service function, if the Rx adapter
service function has not been mapped to any lcores, the interrupt thread
is mapped to the main lcore.

Rx Callback for SW Rx Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For SW based packet transfers, i.e., when the
``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT`` is not set in the adapter's
capabilities flags for a particular ethernet device, the service function
temporarily enqueues mbufs to an event buffer before batch enqueuing these
to the event device. If the buffer fills up, the service function stops
dequeuing packets from the ethernet device. The application may want to
monitor the buffer fill level and instruct the service function to selectively
enqueue packets to the event device. The application may also use some other
criteria to decide which packets should enter the event device even when
the event buffer fill level is low. The
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_cb_register()`` function allow the application
to register a callback that selects which packets to enqueue to the event
device.

Rx event vectorization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The event devices, ethernet device pairs which support the capability
``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_EVENT_VECTOR`` can aggregate packets based on
flow characteristics and generate a ``rte_event`` containing ``rte_event_vector``
whose event type is either ``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETHDEV_VECTOR`` or
``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_VECTOR``.
The maximum, minimum vector sizes and timeouts vary based on the device
capability and can be queried using
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_vector_limits_get``.
The Rx adapter additionally might include useful data such as ethernet device
port and queue identifier in the ``rte_event_vector::port`` and
``rte_event_vector::queue`` and mark ``rte_event_vector::attr_valid`` as true.
The aggregation size and timeout are configurable at a queue level by setting
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf::vector_sz``,
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf::vector_timeout_ns`` and
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf::vector_mp`` when adding queues using
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add``.

A loop processing ``rte_event_vector`` containing mbufs is shown below.

.. code-block:: c

        event = rte_event_dequeue_burst(event_dev, event_port, &event,
                                        1, 0);
        if (!event)
                continue;

        switch (ev.event_type) {
        case RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_VECTOR:
        case RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETHDEV_VECTOR:
                struct rte_mbufs **mbufs;

                mbufs = (struct rte_mbufs **)ev[i].vec->mbufs;
                for (i = 0; i < ev.vec->nb_elem; i++) {
                        /* Process each mbuf. */
                }
        break;
        case default:
                /* Handle other event_types. */
        }

Rx event vectorization for SW Rx adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For SW based event vectorization, i.e., when the
``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT`` is not set in the adapter's
capabilities flags for a particular ethernet device, the service function
creates a single event vector flow for all the mbufs arriving on the given
Rx queue.
The 20-bit event flow identifier is set to 12-bits of Rx queue identifier
and 8-bits of ethernet device identifier.
Flow identifier is formatted as follows:

.. code-block:: console

    19      12,11            0
    +---------+--------------+
    | port_id |   queue_id   |
    +---------+--------------+

Commit message:

doc: correct grammar and style in eventdev guide
Use AI review to find and address various documentation issues
in the eventdev programmer's guide:

Grammar
- Fix subject-verb agreement in multiple places
- Fix article usage ("a" vs "an" before consonant/vowel sounds)
- Fix relative pronoun usage ("which" vs "that")
- Replace nonstandard verb "invocated" with "invoked"

Spelling
- Fix "setup up" to "set up"
- Fix "as show below" to "as shown below" (multiple files)
- Fix "rte mbuf" to "rte_mbuf"
- Fix "rte_mbufs" to "rte_mbuf"
- Fix missing backtick in RST markup

Style
- Capitalize "api" to "API"
- Replace informal "For e.g," with "For example,"
- Remove extra whitespace
- Fix "benefit of" to "benefit from"
- Clarify awkward phrasing

Code example
- Fix invalid switch syntax "case default:" to "default:"

Path corrections
- Update outdated library path from libs/librte_eventdev to lib/eventdev

Signed-off-by: Stephen Hemminger <stephen@networkplumber.org>

doc/guides/prog_guide/eventdev/event_ethernet_rx_adapter.rst, after:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2017 Intel Corporation.

Event Ethernet Rx Adapter Library
=================================

The DPDK Eventdev API allows the application to use an event driven programming
model for packet processing. In this model, the application polls an event
device port for receiving events that reference packets instead of polling Rx
queues of ethdev ports. Packet transfer between ethdev and the event device can
be supported in hardware or require a software thread to receive packets from
the ethdev port using ethdev poll mode APIs and enqueue these as events to the
event device using the eventdev API. Both transfer mechanisms may be present on
the same platform depending on the particular combination of the ethdev and
the event device.

The Event Ethernet Rx Adapter library is intended for the application code to
configure both transfer mechanisms using a common API. A capability API allows
the eventdev PMD to advertise features supported for a given ethdev and allows
the application to perform configuration as per supported features.

API Walk-through
----------------

This section will introduce the reader to the adapter API. The
application has to first instantiate an adapter which is associated with
a single eventdev, next the adapter instance is configured with Rx queues
that are either polled by a SW thread or linked using hardware support. Finally
the adapter is started.

For SW based packet transfers from ethdev to eventdev, the adapter uses a
DPDK service function and the application is also required to assign a core to
the service function.

Creating an Adapter Instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

An adapter instance is created using ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create()``. This
function is passed the event device to be associated with the adapter and port
configuration for the adapter to setup an event port if the adapter needs to use
a service function.

.. code-block:: c

        int err;
        uint8_t dev_id;
        struct rte_event_dev_info dev_info;
        struct rte_event_port_conf rx_p_conf;

        err = rte_event_dev_info_get(id, &dev_info);

        rx_p_conf.new_event_threshold = dev_info.max_num_events;
        rx_p_conf.dequeue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_dequeue_depth;
        rx_p_conf.enqueue_depth = dev_info.max_event_port_enqueue_depth;
        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create(id, dev_id, &rx_p_conf);

If the application desires to have finer control of eventdev port allocation
and setup, it can use the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_ext()`` function.
The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_ext()`` function is passed a callback
function. The callback function is invoked if the adapter needs to use a
service function and needs to create an event port for it. The callback is
expected to fill the ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_conf structure``
passed to it.

If the application desires to control the event buffer size at adapter level,
it can use the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_with_params()`` API. The event
buffer size is specified using ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_params::
event_buf_size``. To configure the event buffer size at queue level, the boolean
flag ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_params::use_queue_event_buf`` need to be
set to true. The function is passed the event device to be associated with
the adapter and port configuration for the adapter to setup an event port
if the adapter needs to use a service function.

If the application desires to control both the event port allocation and event
buffer size, ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_ext_with_params()`` can be used.

Event device configuration for service based adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

When ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create()`` or
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_create_with_params()`` is used for creating
adapter instance, ``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` is
automatically incremented and the event device is reconfigured
with the additional event port during service initialization.
This event device reconfigure logic also increments the
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameter if the adapter event port config is of type
``RTE_EVENT_PORT_CFG_SINGLE_LINK``.

Application no longer needs to account for the
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_event_ports`` and
``rte_event_dev_config::nb_single_link_event_port_queues``
parameters required for eth Rx adapter in the event device configuration,
when the adapter is created using the above-mentioned APIs.

Adding Rx Queues to the Adapter Instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

Ethdev Rx queues can be added to the instance using
either the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()`` function
or ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add()``.
The former is used to add a single Rx queue at a time,
while the latter allows adding multiple Rx queues in a single call.

Single Queue Addition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()`` API
allows adding a single Rx queue to the adapter instance.
Configuration for the Rx queue
is passed using a ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf`` parameter.
Event information for packets from this Rx queue
is encoded in the ``ev`` field of this struct.
The ``servicing_weight`` member of the struct
determines the relative polling frequency of the Rx queue
and is applicable when the adapter uses a service core function.
Applications can also configure the queue event buffer size
using the ``event_buf_size`` parameter in ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf``.

.. code-block:: c

        ev.queue_id = 0;
        ev.sched_type = RTE_SCHED_TYPE_ATOMIC;
        ev.priority = 0;

        queue_config.rx_queue_flags = 0;
        queue_config.ev = ev;
        queue_config.servicing_weight = 1;
        queue_config.event_buf_size = 1024;

        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add(id,
                                                eth_dev_id,
                                                0, &queue_config);

Bulk Queue Addition
^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^^

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add()`` API
allows the addition of multiple Rx queues in a single call.
While ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()``
supports adding multiple queues by specifying ``rx_queue_id = -1``,
it does not allow applying specific configurations to each queue individually.
The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add()`` API
accepts an array of receive queue IDs along with their corresponding configurations,
enabling control over each Rx queue's settings.

.. code-block:: c

        struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf queue_config[nb_rx_queues];
        int rx_queue_id[nb_rx_queues];

        for (int i = 0; i < nb_rx_queues; i++) {
            rx_queue_id[i] = i;
            queue_config[i].rx_queue_flags = 0;
            queue_config[i].ev.queue_id = i;
            queue_config[i].ev.sched_type = RTE_SCHED_TYPE_ATOMIC;
            queue_config[i].ev.priority = 0;
            queue_config[i].servicing_weight = 1;
            queue_config[i].event_buf_size = 1024;
        }

        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queues_add(id,
                                                 eth_dev_id,
                                                 rx_queue_id,
                                                 queue_config,
                                                 nb_rx_queues);

Querying Adapter Capabilities
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_caps_get()`` function allows
the application to query the adapter capabilities for an eventdev and ethdev
combination. For example, if the ``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_OVERRIDE_FLOW_ID``
is set, the application can override the adapter generated flow ID in the event
using ``rx_queue_flags`` field in ``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf``
which is passed as a parameter to the ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add()``
function.

.. code-block:: c

        err = rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_caps_get(dev_id, eth_dev_id, &cap);

        queue_config.rx_queue_flags = 0;
        if (cap & RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_OVERRIDE_FLOW_ID) {
                ev.flow_id = 1;
                queue_config.rx_queue_flags =
                        RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_QUEUE_FLOW_ID_VALID;
        }

Configuring the Service Function
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

If the adapter uses a service function, the application is required to assign
a service core to the service function as shown below.

.. code-block:: c

        uint32_t service_id;

        if (rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_service_id_get(0, &service_id) == 0)
                rte_service_map_lcore_set(service_id, RX_CORE_ID);

Starting the Adapter Instance
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The application calls ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_start()`` to start the adapter.
This function calls the start callbacks of the eventdev PMDs for hardware based
eventdev-ethdev connections and ``rte_service_run_state_set()`` to enable the
service function if one exists.

.. Note::

         The eventdev to which the event_eth_rx_adapter is connected needs to
         be started before calling rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_start().

Getting Adapter Statistics
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_stats_get()`` function reports counters defined
in struct ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_stats``. The received packet and
enqueued event counts are a sum of the counts from the eventdev PMD callbacks
if the callback is supported, and the counts maintained by the service function,
if one exists. The service function also maintains a count of cycles for which
it was not able to enqueue to the event device.

Getting Adapter queue config
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The  ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf_get()`` function reports
flags for handling received packets, event queue identifier, scheduler type,
event priority, polling frequency of the receive queue and flow identifier
in struct ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf``.

Set/Get adapter runtime configuration parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The runtime configuration parameters of adapter can be set/get using
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_runtime_params_set()`` and
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_runtime_params_get()`` respectively.
The parameters that can be set/get are defined in
``struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_runtime_params``.

Getting and resetting Adapter queue stats
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_stats_get()`` function reports
adapter queue counters defined in struct ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_stats``.
This function reports queue level stats only when queue level event buffer is
used otherwise it returns -EINVAL.

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_stats_reset()`` function can be used to
reset queue level stats when queue level event buffer is in use.

Getting Adapter Instance ID
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The ``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_instance_get()`` function reports
Rx adapter instance ID for a specified ethernet device ID and Rx queue index.

Interrupt Based Rx Queues
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The service core function is typically set up to poll ethernet Rx queues for
packets. Certain queues may have low packet rates and it would be more
efficient to enable the Rx queue interrupt and read packets after receiving
the interrupt.

The servicing_weight member of struct rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf
is applicable when the adapter uses a service core function. The application
has to enable Rx queue interrupts when configuring the ethernet device
using the ``rte_eth_dev_configure()`` function and then use a servicing_weight
of zero when adding the Rx queue to the adapter.

The adapter creates a thread blocked on the interrupt, on an interrupt this
thread enqueues the port id and the queue id to a ring buffer. The adapter
service function dequeues the port id and queue id from the ring buffer,
invokes the ``rte_eth_rx_burst()`` to receive packets on the queue and
converts the received packets to events in the same manner as packets
received on a polled Rx queue. The interrupt thread is affinitized to the same
CPUs as the lcores of the Rx adapter service function, if the Rx adapter
service function has not been mapped to any lcores, the interrupt thread
is mapped to the main lcore.

Rx Callback for SW Rx Adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For SW based packet transfers, i.e., when the
``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT`` is not set in the adapter's
capabilities flags for a particular ethernet device, the service function
temporarily enqueues mbufs to an event buffer before batch enqueuing these
to the event device. If the buffer fills up, the service function stops
dequeuing packets from the ethernet device. The application may want to
monitor the buffer fill level and instruct the service function to selectively
enqueue packets to the event device. The application may also use some other
criteria to decide which packets should enter the event device even when
the event buffer fill level is low. The
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_cb_register()`` function allows the application
to register a callback that selects which packets to enqueue to the event
device.

Rx event vectorization
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The event devices, ethernet device pairs which support the capability
``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_EVENT_VECTOR`` can aggregate packets based on
flow characteristics and generate a ``rte_event`` containing ``rte_event_vector``
whose event type is either ``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETHDEV_VECTOR`` or
``RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_VECTOR``.
The maximum, minimum vector sizes and timeouts vary based on the device
capability and can be queried using
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_vector_limits_get``.
The Rx adapter additionally might include useful data such as ethernet device
port and queue identifier in the ``rte_event_vector::port`` and
``rte_event_vector::queue`` and mark ``rte_event_vector::attr_valid`` as true.
The aggregation size and timeout are configurable at a queue level by setting
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf::vector_sz``,
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf::vector_timeout_ns`` and
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_conf::vector_mp`` when adding queues using
``rte_event_eth_rx_adapter_queue_add``.

A loop processing ``rte_event_vector`` containing mbufs is shown below.

.. code-block:: c

        event = rte_event_dequeue_burst(event_dev, event_port, &event,
                                        1, 0);
        if (!event)
                continue;

        switch (ev.event_type) {
        case RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_VECTOR:
        case RTE_EVENT_TYPE_ETHDEV_VECTOR:
        struct rte_mbuf **mbufs;

                mbufs = (struct rte_mbuf **)ev[i].vec->mbufs;
                for (i = 0; i < ev.vec->nb_elem; i++) {
                        /* Process each mbuf. */
                }
        break;
        default:
                /* Handle other event_types. */
        }

Rx event vectorization for SW Rx adapter
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

For SW based event vectorization, i.e., when the
``RTE_EVENT_ETH_RX_ADAPTER_CAP_INTERNAL_PORT`` is not set in the adapter's
capabilities flags for a particular ethernet device, the service function
creates a single event vector flow for all the mbufs arriving on the given
Rx queue.
The 20-bit event flow identifier is set to 12-bits of Rx queue identifier
and 8-bits of ethernet device identifier.
Flow identifier is formatted as follows:

.. code-block:: console

    19      12,11            0
    +---------+--------------+
    | port_id |   queue_id   |
    +---------+--------------+
