doc/guides/cryptodevs/uadk.rst, before:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
   Copyright 2022-2023 Huawei Technologies Co.,Ltd. All rights reserved.
   Copyright 2022-2023 Linaro ltd.

UADK Crypto Poll Mode Driver
============================

This code provides the initial implementation of the UADK poll mode driver.
All cryptographic operations are using UADK library crypto API,
which is algorithm level API, abstracting accelerators' low level implementations.

UADK crypto PMD relies on `UADK library <https://github.com/Linaro/uadk>`_.

UADK is a framework for user applications to access hardware accelerators.
UADK relies on IOMMU SVA (Shared Virtual Address) feature,
which share the same page table between IOMMU and MMU.
As a result, user application can directly use virtual address for device DMA,
which enhances the performance as well as easy usability.


Features
--------

UADK crypto PMD has support for:

Cipher algorithms:

* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_AES_ECB``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_AES_CBC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_AES_XTS``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_DES_CBC``

Hash algorithms:

* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_MD5``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_MD5_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA1``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA1_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA224``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA224_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA256``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA256_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA384``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA384_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA512``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA512_HMAC``

Test steps
----------


#. Build UADK

   .. code-block:: console

      git clone https://github.com/Linaro/uadk.git
      cd uadk
      mkdir build
      ./autogen.sh
      ./configure --prefix=$PWD/build
      make
      make install

   .. note::

      Without ``--prefix``, UADK will be installed to ``/usr/local/lib`` by default.

   .. note::

      If get error: "cannot find -lnuma", please install the libnuma-dev.

#. Run pkg-config libwd to ensure env is setup correctly

   .. code-block:: console

      export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PWD/build/lib/pkgconfig
      pkg-config libwd --cflags --libs -I/usr/local/include -L/usr/local/lib -lwd

   .. note::

      export ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` is required on demand,
      not needed if UADK is installed to ``/usr/local/lib``.

#. Build DPDK

   .. code-block:: console

      cd dpdk
      mkdir build
      meson setup build (--reconfigure)
      cd build
      ninja
      sudo meson install

#. Prepare hugepages for DPDK (see also :doc:`../tools/hugepages`)

   .. code-block:: console

      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node0/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node1/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node2/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node3/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      mkdir -p /mnt/huge_2mb
      mount -t hugetlbfs none /mnt/huge_2mb -o pagesize=2MB

#. Run test app

   .. code-block:: console

      sudo dpdk-test --vdev=crypto_uadk --log-level=6
      RTE>>cryptodev_uadk_autotest
      RTE>>quit


Initialization
--------------

To use the PMD in an application, the user must:

* Call ``rte_vdev_init("crypto_uadk")`` within the application.

* Use ``--vdev="crypto_uadk"`` in the EAL options,
  which will call rte_vdev_init() internally.

The following parameters (all optional) can be provided in the previous two calls:

``max_nb_queue_pairs``
  Specify the maximum number of queue pairs in the device (8 by default).
  The maximum value can be queried from the device property ``available_instances``.
  Property ``available_instances`` value may differ from the devices and platforms.
  Allocating queue pairs bigger than ``available_instances`` will fail.

Example:

.. code-block:: console

	cat /sys/class/uacce/hisi_sec2-2/available_instances
	256

	sudo dpdk-test-crypto-perf -l 0-10 --vdev crypto_uadk,max_nb_queue_pairs=10 \
		-- --devtype crypto_uadk --optype cipher-only --buffer-sz 8192

Commit message:

crypto/uadk: use async mode
To get better performance, using async mode to replace sync mode

However, case UADK_CHAIN_CIPHER_AUTH and UADK_CHAIN_AUTH_CIPHER
still use sync mode for the first operation and async mode for
the second operation since the dependence.

Also RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_OP_VERIFY will hold the generated auth in
qp->temp_digest[idx % BURST_MAX] to verify later.

Signed-off-by: Zhangfei Gao <zhangfei.gao@linaro.org>

doc/guides/cryptodevs/uadk.rst, after:

.. SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
   Copyright 2022-2023 Huawei Technologies Co.,Ltd. All rights reserved.
   Copyright 2022-2023 Linaro ltd.

UADK Crypto Poll Mode Driver
============================

This code provides the initial implementation of the UADK poll mode driver.
All cryptographic operations are using UADK library crypto API,
which is algorithm level API, abstracting accelerators' low level implementations.

UADK crypto PMD relies on `UADK library <https://github.com/Linaro/uadk>`_.

UADK is a framework for user applications to access hardware accelerators.
UADK relies on IOMMU SVA (Shared Virtual Address) feature,
which share the same page table between IOMMU and MMU.
As a result, user application can directly use virtual address for device DMA,
which enhances the performance as well as easy usability.


Features
--------

UADK crypto PMD has support for:

Cipher algorithms:

* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_AES_ECB``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_AES_CBC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_AES_XTS``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_CIPHER_DES_CBC``

Hash algorithms:

* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_MD5``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_MD5_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA1``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA1_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA224``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA224_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA256``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA256_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA384``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA384_HMAC``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA512``
* ``RTE_CRYPTO_AUTH_SHA512_HMAC``

Test steps
----------


#. Build UADK

   .. code-block:: console

      git clone https://github.com/Linaro/uadk.git
      cd uadk
      mkdir build
      ./autogen.sh
      ./configure --prefix=$PWD/build
      make
      make install

   .. note::

      Without ``--prefix``, UADK will be installed to ``/usr/local/lib`` by default.

   .. note::

      If get error: "cannot find -lnuma", please install the libnuma-dev.

#. Run pkg-config libwd to ensure env is setup correctly

   .. code-block:: console

      export PKG_CONFIG_PATH=$PWD/build/lib/pkgconfig
      pkg-config libwd --cflags --libs -I/usr/local/include -L/usr/local/lib -lwd

   .. note::

      export ``PKG_CONFIG_PATH`` is required on demand,
      not needed if UADK is installed to ``/usr/local/lib``.

#. Build DPDK

   .. code-block:: console

      cd dpdk
      mkdir build
      meson setup build (--reconfigure)
      cd build
      ninja
      sudo meson install

#. Prepare hugepages for DPDK (see also :doc:`../tools/hugepages`)

   .. code-block:: console

      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node0/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node1/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node2/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      echo 1024 > /sys/devices/system/node/node3/hugepages/hugepages-2048kB/nr_hugepages
      mkdir -p /mnt/huge_2mb
      mount -t hugetlbfs none /mnt/huge_2mb -o pagesize=2MB

#. Run test app

   .. code-block:: console

      sudo dpdk-test --vdev=crypto_uadk --log-level=6
      RTE>>cryptodev_uadk_autotest
      RTE>>quit

As a reference, the following table shows a mapping between the past DPDK versions
and the UADK library version supported by them:

.. _table_uadk_crypto_pmd_versions:

.. table:: DPDK and external UADK library version compatibility

   ==============  ============================
   DPDK version    UADK library version
   ==============  ============================
   22.11 - 25.03   2.4 - 2.8
   25.07+          2.9.1
   ==============  ============================


Initialization
--------------

To use the PMD in an application, the user must:

* Call ``rte_vdev_init("crypto_uadk")`` within the application.

* Use ``--vdev="crypto_uadk"`` in the EAL options,
  which will call rte_vdev_init() internally.

The following parameters (all optional) can be provided in the previous two calls:

``max_nb_queue_pairs``
  Specify the maximum number of queue pairs in the device (8 by default).
  The maximum value can be queried from the device property ``available_instances``.
  Property ``available_instances`` value may differ from the devices and platforms.
  Allocating queue pairs bigger than ``available_instances`` will fail.

Example:

.. code-block:: console

	cat /sys/class/uacce/hisi_sec2-2/available_instances
	256

	sudo dpdk-test-crypto-perf -l 0-10 --vdev crypto_uadk,max_nb_queue_pairs=10 \
		-- --devtype crypto_uadk --optype cipher-only --buffer-sz 8192
