doc/guides/nics/txgbe.rst, before:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2015-2020 Beijing WangXun Technology Co., Ltd.

TXGBE Poll Mode Driver
======================

Supported NICs
--------------

- Wangxun 10 Gigabit Ethernet NICs
- Wangxun 25 Gigabit Ethernet NICs
- Wangxun 40 Gigabit Ethernet NICs

Features
--------

- Multiple queues for TX and RX
- Receiver Side Scaling (RSS)
- MAC/VLAN filtering
- Packet type information
- Checksum offload
- VLAN/QinQ stripping and inserting
- TSO offload
- Promiscuous mode
- Multicast mode
- Port hardware statistics
- Jumbo frames
- Link state information
- Link flow control
- Interrupt mode for RX
- Scattered and gather for TX and RX
- DCB
- IEEE 1588
- FW version
- LRO
- Generic flow API

Prerequisites
-------------

- Learning about Wangxun 10 Gigabit Ethernet NICs using
  `<https://www.net-swift.com/a/383.html>`_.

- Learning about Wangxun 25 Gigabit Ethernet NICs using
  `<https://www.net-swift.com/a/25GbE-tong-yong-lei-FF5025.html>`_.

- Follow the DPDK :ref:`Getting Started Guide for Linux <linux_gsg>` to setup the basic DPDK environment.

Configuration
-------------

Compilation Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following build-time options may be enabled on build time using.

``-Dc_args=`` meson argument (e.g. ``-Dc_args=-DRTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_RX``).

Please note that enabling debugging options may affect system performance.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_RX`` (undefined by default)

  Toggle display of receive fast path run-time messages.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_TX`` (undefined by default)

  Toggle display of transmit fast path run-time messages.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_TX_FREE`` (undefined by default)

  Toggle display of transmit descriptor clean messages.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_PF_DISABLE_STRIP_CRC`` (undefined by default)

  Decide to enable or disable HW CRC in VF PMD.

Dynamic Logging Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One may leverage EAL option "--log-level" to change default levels
for the log types supported by the driver. The option is used with
an argument typically consisting of two parts separated by a colon.

TXGBE PMD provides the following log types available for control:

- ``pmd.net.txgbe.driver`` (default level is **notice**)

  Affects driver-wide messages unrelated to any particular devices.

- ``pmd.net.txgbe.init`` (default level is **notice**)

  Extra logging of the messages during PMD initialization.

- ``pmd.net.txgbe.bp`` (default level is **notice**)

  Extra logging of auto-negotiation process for backplane NICs.
  Supply ``--log-level=pmd.net.txgbe.bp:debug`` to view messages.

Runtime Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following ``devargs`` options can be enabled at runtime. They must
be passed as part of EAL arguments. For example,

.. code-block:: console

   dpdk-testpmd -a 01:00.0,auto_neg=1 -- -i

Please note that following ``devargs`` are only set for backplane NICs.

- ``auto_neg`` (default **1**)

  Toggle behavior to use auto-negotiation mode or force mode to
  link up backplane NICs.

- ``poll`` (default **0**)

  Toggle behavior to enable/disable polling mode to receive AN interrupt.

- ``present`` (default **0**)

  Toggle behavior to use present mode or init mode.

- ``sgmii`` (default **0**)

  Special treatment for KX SGMII cards.

- ``ffe_set`` (default **0**)

  Use to set PHY link mode and enable FFE parameters for user debugging.
  If disabled, the FFE parameters will not take effect. Otherwise, set 1
  for SFI mode, set 2 for KR mode, set 3 for KX4 mode, set 4 for KX mode.

- ``ffe_main`` (default **27**)

  PHY parameter used for user debugging. Setting other values to
  take effect requires setting the ``ffe_set``.

- ``ffe_pre`` (default **8**)

  PHY parameter used for user debugging. Setting other values to
  take effect requires setting the ``ffe_set``.

- ``ffe_post`` (default **44**)

  PHY parameter used for user debugging. Setting other values to
  take effect requires setting the ``ffe_set``.

Driver compilation and testing
------------------------------

Refer to the document :ref:`compiling and testing a PMD for a NIC <pmd_build_and_test>`
for details.

Sample Application Notes
------------------------

Generic flow API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TXGBE PMD supports generic flow API which configures hardware to match specific
ingress or egress traffic, alter its fate and query related counters according
to any number of user-defined rules.

A flow rule is the combination of attributes with a matching pattern and a list of
actions. Theoretically one rule can match more than one filters, which named for
different patterns and actions. Like ethertype filter defines a rule in pattern:
the first not void item can be ETH, and the next not void item must be END.

For example, create a flow rule:

.. code-block:: console

	testpmd> flow create 0 ingress pattern eth type is 0x0806 / end actions queue index 2 / end

For a detailed usage description please refer to "Flow rules management" section in DPDK :doc:`../testpmd_app_ug/testpmd_funcs`.

Traffic Management API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TXGBE PMD supports generic DPDK Traffic Management API which allows to
configure the following features: hierarchical scheduling, traffic shaping,
congestion management, packet marking.

For example, add shaper profile

.. code-block:: console

	testpmd> add port tm node shaper profile 0 0 0 0 25000000 0 0

For a detailed usage description please refer to "Traffic Management" section in DPDK :doc:`../testpmd_app_ug/testpmd_funcs`.

Limitations or Known issues
---------------------------

Power8, ARMv7 and BSD are not supported yet.

Commit message:

net/txgbe: add Tx head write-back mode for Amber-Lite
Add TX head Write-Back mode for Amber-Lite NICs. When enabled, the
hardware no longer individually rewrites descriptors but intermittently
notifies the driver of processed descriptor indices. This feature
significantly improves performance and is enabled by default in the
driver. Users can configure it via tx_headwb and tx_headwb_size in devargs.

Signed-off-by: Zaiyu Wang <zaiyuwang@trustnetic.com>

doc/guides/nics/txgbe.rst, after:

..  SPDX-License-Identifier: BSD-3-Clause
    Copyright(c) 2015-2020 Beijing WangXun Technology Co., Ltd.

TXGBE Poll Mode Driver
======================

Supported NICs
--------------

- Wangxun 10 Gigabit Ethernet NICs
- Wangxun 25 Gigabit Ethernet NICs
- Wangxun 40 Gigabit Ethernet NICs

Features
--------

- Multiple queues for TX and RX
- Receiver Side Scaling (RSS)
- MAC/VLAN filtering
- Packet type information
- Checksum offload
- VLAN/QinQ stripping and inserting
- TSO offload
- Promiscuous mode
- Multicast mode
- Port hardware statistics
- Jumbo frames
- Link state information
- Link flow control
- Interrupt mode for RX
- Scattered and gather for TX and RX
- DCB
- IEEE 1588
- FW version
- LRO
- Generic flow API

Prerequisites
-------------

- Learning about Wangxun 10 Gigabit Ethernet NICs using
  `<https://www.net-swift.com/a/383.html>`_.

- Learning about Wangxun 25 Gigabit Ethernet NICs using
  `<https://www.net-swift.com/a/25GbE-tong-yong-lei-FF5025.html>`_.

- Follow the DPDK :ref:`Getting Started Guide for Linux <linux_gsg>` to setup the basic DPDK environment.

Configuration
-------------

Compilation Options
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following build-time options may be enabled on build time using.

``-Dc_args=`` meson argument (e.g. ``-Dc_args=-DRTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_RX``).

Please note that enabling debugging options may affect system performance.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_RX`` (undefined by default)

  Toggle display of receive fast path run-time messages.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_TX`` (undefined by default)

  Toggle display of transmit fast path run-time messages.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_DEBUG_TX_FREE`` (undefined by default)

  Toggle display of transmit descriptor clean messages.

- ``RTE_LIBRTE_TXGBE_PF_DISABLE_STRIP_CRC`` (undefined by default)

  Decide to enable or disable HW CRC in VF PMD.

Dynamic Logging Parameters
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

One may leverage EAL option "--log-level" to change default levels
for the log types supported by the driver. The option is used with
an argument typically consisting of two parts separated by a colon.

TXGBE PMD provides the following log types available for control:

- ``pmd.net.txgbe.driver`` (default level is **notice**)

  Affects driver-wide messages unrelated to any particular devices.

- ``pmd.net.txgbe.init`` (default level is **notice**)

  Extra logging of the messages during PMD initialization.

- ``pmd.net.txgbe.bp`` (default level is **notice**)

  Extra logging of auto-negotiation process for backplane NICs.
  Supply ``--log-level=pmd.net.txgbe.bp:debug`` to view messages.

Runtime Configuration
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

The following ``devargs`` options can be enabled at runtime. They must
be passed as part of EAL arguments. For example,

.. code-block:: console

   dpdk-testpmd -a 01:00.0,auto_neg=1 -- -i

Please note that following ``devargs`` are only set for backplane NICs.

- ``auto_neg`` (default **1**)

  Toggle behavior to use auto-negotiation mode or force mode to
  link up backplane NICs.

- ``poll`` (default **0**)

  Toggle behavior to enable/disable polling mode to receive AN interrupt.

- ``present`` (default **0**)

  Toggle behavior to use present mode or init mode.

- ``sgmii`` (default **0**)

  Special treatment for KX SGMII cards.

- ``ffe_set`` (default **0**)

  Use to set PHY link mode and enable FFE parameters for user debugging.
  If disabled, the FFE parameters will not take effect. Otherwise, set 1
  for SFI mode, set 2 for KR mode, set 3 for KX4 mode, set 4 for KX mode.

- ``ffe_main`` (default **27**)

  PHY parameter used for user debugging. Setting other values to
  take effect requires setting the ``ffe_set``.

- ``ffe_pre`` (default **8**)

  PHY parameter used for user debugging. Setting other values to
  take effect requires setting the ``ffe_set``.

- ``ffe_post`` (default **44**)

  PHY parameter used for user debugging. Setting other values to
  take effect requires setting the ``ffe_set``.

Please note that following ``devargs`` are only set for Amber-Lite NICs.

- ``tx_headwb`` (default **1**)

  Use to enable the TX Head Write-Back mode.
  In this mode, the hardware merges and writes back a group of TX descriptors
  together to reduce memory access times, which helps improve performance.

- ``tx_headwb_size`` (default **16**)

  Tx head write-back length.
  It is recommended to use the default values.
  Setting other values to take effect requires setting the ``tx_headwb``.

Driver compilation and testing
------------------------------

Refer to the document :ref:`compiling and testing a PMD for a NIC <pmd_build_and_test>`
for details.

Sample Application Notes
------------------------

Generic flow API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TXGBE PMD supports generic flow API which configures hardware to match specific
ingress or egress traffic, alter its fate and query related counters according
to any number of user-defined rules.

A flow rule is the combination of attributes with a matching pattern and a list of
actions. Theoretically one rule can match more than one filters, which named for
different patterns and actions. Like ethertype filter defines a rule in pattern:
the first not void item can be ETH, and the next not void item must be END.

For example, create a flow rule:

.. code-block:: console

	testpmd> flow create 0 ingress pattern eth type is 0x0806 / end actions queue index 2 / end

For a detailed usage description please refer to "Flow rules management" section in DPDK :doc:`../testpmd_app_ug/testpmd_funcs`.

Traffic Management API
~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~~

TXGBE PMD supports generic DPDK Traffic Management API which allows to
configure the following features: hierarchical scheduling, traffic shaping,
congestion management, packet marking.

For example, add shaper profile

.. code-block:: console

	testpmd> add port tm node shaper profile 0 0 0 0 25000000 0 0

For a detailed usage description please refer to "Traffic Management" section in DPDK :doc:`../testpmd_app_ug/testpmd_funcs`.

Limitations or Known issues
---------------------------

Power8, ARMv7 and BSD are not supported yet.
